The first thing you wanna try and do,
and you might wanna actually copy and
paste your whole file.
You might want to just go into
your folder on the desktop.
You have a shader.js.
You might wanna duplicate that, and
leave this as a backup, because maybe what
you're creating, you're gonna wanna
come back to this cube at some point.
We're gonna change it, and we're gonna
start to produce something more like this.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna
go back to our fragment shader.
And the first thing we need to do
is we need to define just 1 circle.
Before we start to get
a pattern of many circles,
let's figure out how do we just
draw 1 circle within this cube.
So remember, coordinates here.
So I'm gonna clear this a little bit,
just clean it up, make it a vec4.
That's just taking in the texture
coordinates, the x, and
it's just taking this x value.
And what we actually wanna do is we
want to create a image that is gonna be,
let's say, white for a circle, and then
black outside of the edges of the circle.
And so in order to do that, we're gonna
say, okay, for each pixel in this surface,
what is the distance of that pixel to
the center of this coordinate system that
we have here,
this little two-dimensional radiant?
What is this current pixels value,
the distance to the center?
And then based on that distance, if it's
over a certain limit, let's make it black,
or make it white.
So we're gonna say we have
a vec2 called center.
And center is gonna be 0.5 0.5,
because remember,
our texture coordinates
are going from 0 to 1.
And so if we were to consider 0.5 0.5,
that's gonna be the center of that
two-dimensional space between 0 and 1.
And then we're gonna say what is
the distance between the vUv and center?
So distance is a built-in function,
part of GLSL, and
it gives us the distance
between these two coordinates.
So it's a Euclidean distance,
That basically just gives us how far
away 1 coordinate is from the other.
Now we have this float.
We have float d.
And so we can pass d in as our vec3 color,
instead of using vUv.x.
And we've kinda created
something interesting, actually.
We've created a gradient,
a radial gradient that goes
from the center outwards.
And what's happening is we're saying what
is the the current pixels coordinates?
So remember, this is getting run on
every single pixel of this surface.
And every pixel has a slightly
different coordinate here as vUv.
So it's saying, let's say for
this current pixel here,
what's the distance of
this pixel to the center?
And it's gonna say well,
the distance is maybe somewhere between
0 1 is somewhere in the middle.
It's like a greyish 0.5 type of thing.
The closer we get to the center, the more
likely this value's gonna get down to 0.
So at the very center point, if we say
the distance from the very center point to
the center the distance is gonna be 0,
because it's right on the center.
And the further away we
get from the center,
the higher that value's
gonna go towards 1.
So now we just say let's make
another thing called mask.
It's gonna be masking
whether it's inside or out.
We're gonna say if d > 0.25, make it 1.
Otherwise, make it 0.
It's just the ternary.
And then we're gonna output mask by
putting that into our FragColor.
So it's pretty hard to conceptualize
the whole current coordinate,
current pixel thing, because this is
probably not a paradigm you've ever
had to think about, until you start
start to work with shaders, but yeah.
Okay, so now we have this mask value,
and all of the sudden, now we have,
something that's giving
us a circle on each side.
Maybe we want it the other way around.
So instead of it being a black circle and
a white outside,
we want it to be white on the inside,
and black on the outside.
So we'll just do this.
We'll just invert the mass.
So we'll say mass = 1- mass.
That will just invert the color,
or invert the value.
Okay, so we're pretty close
to getting towards this,
at least this simple version here,
just some circles.
We're not quite there yet.
But what we're gonna do is
we're gonna use a modulo
operator to multiply this
coordinate to make it repeat.
And so instead of using vUv,
we're gonna create
another vec2, call it pos,
short for position.
And we'll put pos inside of distance.
So it's now the same thing, but
now we're using pos, instead of vUv.
And here we're gonna use some sort of
wraparound, some sort of modulo to
make it so that we can repeat
this by some sort of multiple.
So we're gonna say mod vUv times,
let's say 8, and then 1.
So in JavaScript, we have,
let's say a mod b.
So this is how it looks in JavaScript,
is you just have 1 number, modulo,
another number.
Well, in GLSL, it's actually mod function,
which is a built-in a and b, so
that's why we have it like this.
We have the first parameter, which is the
a, the second parameter, which is the b.
We're saying modulo around 1.
So what this is doing is
saying multiply the vUv by 8.
And so it goes from 0 to 1, and then we
multiply it by 8, so it goes from 0 to 8.
But then we wanna wrap it around, so
that it's always actually within 0 to 1.
And that's what this module is doing.
And what ends up happening is
that we have many circles,
depending on how many times we repeat it.
So if we repeat it by twice,
we have 2 and 2.
And now the next thing we're gonna
do is we're gonna do two things.
One, if we're gonna use a built in
function instead of this thing.
So this thing is a ternary,
where we're saying if it's greater
than some threshold, use 1.
If it's less than or
equal some threshold, use 0.
But we can replace this with
a built-in function called step.
In step, it takes in a threshold.
So let's say this is
the size of the circle,
and then it takes in a distance value.
And it will do the same thing
as well we just wrotel.
And we'll do it in a little
bit more of an optimized way,
because it's generally better to use
these built-in functions in GLSL.
Because then it can take advantage of some
of the hardware inside of our GPU for
these specific operations.
And so just by changing this 0.25, we're
gonna change the size of the circles.
So how about we try doing this?
We're gonna try making it so that instead
of all the circles being the same size,
we're going to make them
increase based on the vUv.x
And so what I'm doing now is I'm saying
the circles are gonna start at some value.
Let's say they start at 0.25, so
this is this first number here.
And then I'm gonna increase
the circle size, or
the threshold here that we're doing.
I'm gonna increase that
by vUv.x times 0.25.
So if I didn't have this times 0.25,
the circles would get
really large very quickly.
So I'm just gonna scale that down, so
that we're only increasing them gradually.
But maybe instead of just increasing it
like this, let's introduce some time.
Let's introduce some animation.
So I'm gonna say sine of time,
+ vUv.x times some value.
This is now using time to modulate
the size of these little circles.
Let's try increasing the the number here,
just playing around with
some of these values, maybe.
That looks pretty cool,
it's like a lava lamp.
But just by changing these values,
we can start to get some different and
interesting results.